Hey welcome back.
So in this video I have two key questions I want to answer.
The first is what is object oriented programming.
What's it mean.
And then the second is to define two key terms that we'll hear throughout this entire section class
and object.
So we'll see what they mean and how they relate to object oriented programming.
OK.
One of the first things I want to be clear about is that OTOP is not unique to Python.
Not every single programming language is object oriented but most of the popular ones out there are
object oriented.
So you know the exact syntax in Python just like the syntax to create a variable in Python is different
than the syntax you create a variable in Javascript.
But they both have variables.
So O.P. is not Python specific topic.
OK so next up what is it.
What does it actually mean.
So in my definition I break it into two main components the first and most important idea is that O.P.
is just about using code to represent or recreate things that exist in the world things that aren't
in our programming language.
So whether that's a car use or a poker hand a playing card a deck of cards a casino really anything
out there and we're not just limited to physical objects.
It could be more intangible things that processor.
I don't know a song or a schedule a calendar all sorts of different things but they don't exist built
into Python.
So we want to create our own representation of that using Python and the way we do it.
And this is the second part of the definition is using classes and objects.
So there's two things.
The first O.P. is just about representing things that exist in the world using code.
And the second is the way we do that is by writing classes in objects.
OK so that's a high level definition.
Let's talk about classes and objects now to bolded words.
Very important to this entire section.
So the next logical question might be what exactly is a class.
Classes are like blueprints or recipes or specifications.
They define what every single instance of that class should contain.
So that's kind of a confusing definition.
Let's say that we are modeling users.
So we would define a User class and it is a blueprint for every individual user we create.
So we set out to define Let's say every user has a couple of pieces of information which we call attributes.
Every user has a username password and email and a profile picture but then we also include functionality
or methods inside the user class that says every user has a log out method.
It also has a change profile picture method a checkout method.
Those sort of things.
So it's about taking functionality and pieces of data attributes and putting them together into a specification.
So every user has this or every playing card has a suit and a number and colors it red or black.
And maybe that's about it.
But every playing card follows that pattern it's like a little cookie cutter.
And then we can use that cookie cutter to create individual instances of that class.
So we find the blueprint that says every user looks like this.
And then when we use that term object or instance it is an instance of a class when we create a user
object it is based off of the User class.
When we create a list object or a dictionary object it's based off of the Dictionary class.
So yes even though we don't know how to define our own classes yet we've been working with classes nonstop
in this course so I have Python open in the terminal and we've been using things like ants or lists
pretty much nonstop.
So if I type help if you can see the video on help it's just a way for us to retrieve documentation
information about classes or functions or other things in Python.
But let me just do help on it.
Notice the first thing it tells me help on class it.
And then we have this class ant right here.
So don't worry about the syntax yet.
But what this shows us right here is the specification for every int.
So every int has all these methods.
Most of these we don't actually work with but every int has that see a floor method.
It has a.
What else.
Invert Moel or Rand.
All these different things every.
It comes from or comes with or let's do help on list.
So here's the list class.
So this is the blueprint the specification that says OK every list comes with all of these pieces of
functionality.
And just as a side note these double underscore once we've talked about are not really for us to use.
They are kind of journal pieces here all these list methods we've been working with pen to clear copy
count extend what else is there.
Insert pop or remove sort all these things you spend a lot of time covering.
Those are defined in the list class.
Then when I do something like this numbs equals one to three.
I am creating an instance of the list class.
So when I do type Nom's write I get class list.
So hopefully that helps illustrate the idea of a class.
It's a blueprint.
And then we create instances of that class.
I should mention this is a special little syntax the classes will be creating will create instances
by using their name that we create.
So we might do something like I don't know card equals card or we might use something like Alyx equals
user.
And then we pass an I don't know him Alex and then something else and some other information.
But just to be clear this is a special case it's a builtin and class type in Python.
We'll be learning to define our own classes to add in.
So I'm actually going to end the video here but I just really want to hit this point home.
Classes and objects.
It all boils down to that with O.P..
Classes are the schematics objects are the instances of that class created using the recipe creating
using the schematic.
So from here on out we're going to learn how to create our own classes and work.
The reason we do that is to help model things that exist in the real world.
So that's coming up next.
OK.
Let's move on.